# 📚 2019

## December

### Annihilation, by Jeff VanDermeer

I read this because I'd seen and loved the movie. It maintains the
movie's atmosphere but goes in its own direction.

### Hate, Inc. by Matt Taibbi

I've taken some notes [here](reviews/hate-inc.md).

### Trilobite! by Richard Fortey

My biggest regret is that I read a text-only version. I had already
read the excellent chapter on the Trilobite's Eye and knew this book
was good. It is.

### The Soul of an Octopus: A Surprising Exploration into the Wonder of Consciousness, by Sy Montgomery

Octopuses are now my new favourite animal! Read this book!

## November

### The Interpreter of Maladies, by Jhumpa Lahiri

I didn't like this all that much. It seemed like a slightly foreign view of Indian life, so the characters didn't seem
to feel natural.

### The Incredible History of India's Geography, by Sanjeev Sanyal

This is targeted at younger audiences but it is a concise information dump of India's Geography and how it shaped its
History. I found it a good refresher of things from my school days.


### The Mother Tongue: English and How It Got That Way, by Bill Bryson

I wanted to like this book so much, but I didn't. It is too light for my tastes. Mark Forsyth's books are a nice
counter-example of how to write interesting English books.

### What Kind of Creatures Are We? by Noam Chomsky

I heard this as an audiobook. I love Chomsky's political books and this was the first of his that I've read on Language.
I like how he talks about language, not as a mode of communication, but as a mode of cognition itself. His theory
involves (external and internal) merge, which is a bottom-up approach for the mind to recursively combine parts of a
sentence to build higher meaning.

### What the Hell Did I Just Read, by David Wong

I like David Wong's books and this is the third in his 'John' trilogy. Very entertaining read, constantly humorous and
horrifying.
