# 📚 Books read in 2020

## December

### The Happiness Hypothesis, by Jonathan Haidt

Reviewed [here](reviews/happiness.md).

### The Count of Monte Cristo, by Alexandre Dumas

I have fond memories of this book: I won an abridged copy as an award in school, way back in IInd standard. So I was not ready for how BIG the original version is. So most of this month went in reading this enjoyable revenge tale.

## November

### Nabokov: The Mystery of Literary Structures, by Leona Toker

A detailed look at several of Nabokov's books. A few weren't fresh in my memory
but this is always a fruitful area to get lost in.

### Circe, by Madeline Miller

Lovely book from the author of *The Song of Achilles*. This one's about, as you'd expect, Circe, who features in the Odyssey.

### We Are Legion (We Are Bob), by Dennis E. Taylor 

Pretty decent. Reads a bit like Star Trek fanfic at times so I don't know if I'll continue the series.

## October

I got a new kindle at the end of this month, so I read more than usual. It is quite nice!

### The Dead, James Joyce

Short and bitter-sweet story.

### Mythos, by Stephen Fry

Has his trademark light-hearted air which is really nice sometimes and a bit annoying some other times.

### When Breath Becomes Air, by Paul Kalanidhi

An exquisite book. Not an easy read (emotionally), but so lyrical.

### Alexander the Great

Reviewed [here](intro/alexander.md).

## September

### Exhalation, by Ted Chiang

A short story collection from one of my favourite science fiction authors. *The Truth of Fact, The
Truth of Feeling* is my favourite, as it ties into  discussions around memory and writing. Available
[here](https://web.archive.org/web/20140222103103/http://subterraneanpress.com/magazine/fall_2013/the_truth_of_fact_the_truth_of_feeling_by_ted_chiang).

### Accounting: A Very Short Introduction

Reviewed [here](intro/accounting.md).

### Advertising: A Very Short Introduction
Reviewed [here](intro/advertising.md).

## August

### An Atlas of Impossible Longing, by Anuradha Roy

Probably not as enjoyable as the other book of hers that I've read
(All the Lives We Never Lived), but decent nonetheless.

## July

### Luzhin's Defense, by Vladimir Nabokov

Hit a spot of reader's block so I decided to reread my favourite author. What
can I say? It's Nabokov and Chess and obsession, in language and form that only
he can create.

## June

### On Writing Well, by William Zinsser

I've had a bad couple of months and it was difficult to get back into books. I
finally finished this one and liked it for its clarity. The author practices
what he preaches.

## May

### nothing

Bad month. My long commute was the only time I used to read. I'm working from
home these days due to COVID-19, so my reading habit has suffered.

## April

### The Lord of the Rings, by JRR Tolkien

Probably my third reading of one of my all time favourites.

### The Sounds of Poetry: A Brief Guide, by Robert Pinsky

An enjoyable introduction for some one with very little exposure to the world
of poetry. I think this has genuinely sharpened my ear a bit and helped me
appreciate good poetry.

## March

### Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation, by Lynne Truss

See my detailed review [here](reviews/eats-shoots-leaves.md).

## February

### Good Math, Mark C. Chu-Carroll

See my detailed review [here](reviews/good-math.md).

### Grokking Algorithms An Illustrated Guide For Programmers and Other Curious People, by Aditya Y. Bhargava

I quite liked this book. It was a good refreshes of things that my
college ought to have taught me but didn't. Bonus points for the
pretty pictures.

### Flow, by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi

See my detailed review [here](reviews/flow.md).

## January

### Bottle of Lies, by Katherine Eban

The story of Ranbaxy and the generic drug market. Wasn't what I expected, and
was pleasantly surprised by how nicely the stories were woven together.

### Olive Kitteridge, by Elizabeth Strout

Not the sort of book I usually read, but Penn Jillete spoke highly of it in
[his podcast](https://pennsundayschool.com/). Well-written, poignant stories of
old age, depression, families and so on, centered around an outspoken, strict
school teacher.

### The Song of Achilles by Madeline Miller

I found the initial half to be a bit slow-paced, and didn't think the
characters were interesting either. But it picked up in the second half and
became genuinely interesting. Recommended for fans of Greek mythology.



