# 2021

## June

#### Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahnemann

Did not have high expectations going in, as I was already aware that an entire
chapter was essentially worthless due to the [replication
crisis](https://replicationindex.com/2017/02/02/reconstruction-of-a-train-wreck-how-priming-research-went-of-the-rails/)
that has proven that most research around priming.

I find survey-based research rather depressing. The book time and again states
that researchers have a poor understanding of statistics, and the subjects
display a high variability in their answers based on trivial and unrelated
conditions. But it then goes on to quote study after study as if it were fact.

I've enjoyed other areas in non-fiction a lot more than this one and should
probably stick to them.

#### Mistborn: The Final Empre by Brandon Sanderson

My first by the author. Thoroughly enjoyed it. Did not have too many of the
usual fantasy tropes about heroes and destiny and so on.

#### All Systems Red by Martha Wells

Was a short science fiction piece I read for a change of pace.

## May

#### Assassin's Apprentice by Robin Hobb

I wanted to read a good fantasy book and this was the one I picked. Very
enjoyable read and seems worth committing to finish the trilogy.

#### The Pig That Wants to Be Eaten, by Julian Baggini

Fun armchair philosophy thought experiments. There are a hundred of them, from
age old paradoxes (Zeno) to funny insights that trigger a deeper train of
thought (Douglas Adams). The fact that there are so many make this book harder
to read in one sitting. Good in bite-sized chunks.

#### Nexus, by Ramez Naam

Wanted a switch from fantasy to science fiction so I tried this one out. It was
alright.

## April

#### The Brain: The Story of You, by David Eagleman

Felt like a short read that didn't go deep enough but this was a nice
introduction to our current undertanding of how the brain functions. The author
does a nice job of keep things interesting at a high level.

#### Golden Gate, by Vikram Seth

This is a technically brilliant book but ultimately dealt with themes outside
my usual genres.

#### Haunted, by Chuck Palahniuk

Ahh this one is not for the queasy. A collection of uncomfortable short stories
about cynical wannabe authors stuck in a writers' retreat.

## March

#### Myths and Legends of Ancient Greece and Rome, by E. M. Berens

After reading Stephen Fryâ€™s take on this genre, it was refreshing to read a
more classic take. Highly recommended. I was fascinated by this kind of stuff
when I was young. Is adulthood mostly us trying to recapture those days?

#### Despair, by Vladimir Nabokov

I wrote about it [here](reviews/despair.md).

## February

This was a great month for books. I signed up for scribd (again) and went to my
favourite book store (Blossoms) after nearly a year.

#### The Enchanter: An Adventure in the Land of Nabokov, by Lila Azam Zanganeh

An exquisite love letter to Nabokov's works. Emulates his luminous, mad style
very well.

#### Fight Club, by Chuck Palahniuk

> Our great depression is our lives.

Reread this. Immensely quotable book.

#### Seven Brief Lessons on Physics, by Carlo Rovelli

A light overview of physics. Does not go too deep so might be good for folks
who are dipping their toes in this genre.

#### Goodbye, Things: On Minimalist Living, by Fumio Sasaki

A light look at the minimalist movement from a Japanese blogger.

#### Blood, Sweat, and Pixels: The Triumphant, Turbulent Stories Behind How Video Games Are Made, by Jason Schreier

Somehow this was more forgiving than I expected, of the grind and hell folks in
the videogame industry go through. The author hand waves it away as something
people do out of sheer passion. I can understand that from the small indies
working away for years on a tight budget, but I wonder if that holds true for
the entire industry. Nevertheless this was an interesting peek behind the
curtains of game companies small and large.

#### Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World, by David Epstein

Well this was preaching to the choir as I consider myself a bit of a
generalist. Most of the book quotes success stories, which makes for nice
reading but I guess if you look for something you'll always find examples
supporting your cause.

The larger point is that we don't know what we want to do unless we try it, so
the general recommendation is to sample widely and not be afraid to be a late
bloomer.

#### The Tangled Lands, by Paolo Bacigalupi, Tobias S. Buckell

Four short stories by the two authors, all centered around a world troubled by
poisonous brambles that grow and spread whenever its people use magic.

I've read and liked Baciagalupi's dystopian science fiction before.

## January

#### Anabasis, by Xenophon

> "Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks. I must teach you. You must read them in the
original. Thalatta! Thalatta!"  -- Buck Mulligan in Joyce's *Ulysses*.

> "Warriors, come out to play-i-ay."  -- From the movie *The Warriors*.

Well I didn't read it in the original Greek but I finally read this book.
It's nice when you finally read something that has such a rich cultural history
and you see all the influences it has had.
