home/books/2021.md, before:

# 2021

## February

#### Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World, by David Epstein

Well this was preaching to the choir as I consider myself a bit of a
generalist. Most of the book quotes success stories, which makes for nice
reading but I guess if you look for something you'll always find examples
supporting your cause.

The larger point is that we don't know what we want to do unless we try it, so
the general recommendation is to sample widely and not be afraid to be a late
bloomer.

#### The Tangled Lands, by Paolo Bacigalupi, Tobias S. Buckell

Four short stories by the two authors, all centered around a world troubled by
poisonous brambles that grow and spread whenever its people use magic.

I've read and liked Baciagalupi's dystopian science fiction before.

## January

#### Anabasis, by Xenophon

> "Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks. I must teach you. You must read them in the
original. Thalatta! Thalatta!"  -- Buck Mulligan in Joyce's *Ulysses*.

> "Warriors, come out to play-i-ay."  -- From the movie *The Warriors*.

Well I didn't read it in the original Greek but I finally read this book.
It's nice when you finally read something that has such a rich cultural history
and you see all the influences it has had.

Commit message:

added blood sweat and pixels

home/books/2021.md, after:

# 2021

## February

#### Blood, Sweat, and Pixels: The Triumphant, Turbulent Stories Behind How Video Games Are Made, by Jason Schreier

Somehow this was more forgiving than I expected, of the grind and hell folks in
the videogame industry go through. The author hand waves it away as something
people do out of sheer passion. I can understand that from the small indies
working away for years on a tight budget, but I wonder if that holds true for
the entire industry. Nevertheless this was an interesting peek behind the
curtains of game companies small and large.

#### Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World, by David Epstein

Well this was preaching to the choir as I consider myself a bit of a
generalist. Most of the book quotes success stories, which makes for nice
reading but I guess if you look for something you'll always find examples
supporting your cause.

The larger point is that we don't know what we want to do unless we try it, so
the general recommendation is to sample widely and not be afraid to be a late
bloomer.

#### The Tangled Lands, by Paolo Bacigalupi, Tobias S. Buckell

Four short stories by the two authors, all centered around a world troubled by
poisonous brambles that grow and spread whenever its people use magic.

I've read and liked Baciagalupi's dystopian science fiction before.

## January

#### Anabasis, by Xenophon

> "Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks. I must teach you. You must read them in the
original. Thalatta! Thalatta!"  -- Buck Mulligan in Joyce's *Ulysses*.

> "Warriors, come out to play-i-ay."  -- From the movie *The Warriors*.

Well I didn't read it in the original Greek but I finally read this book.
It's nice when you finally read something that has such a rich cultural history
and you see all the influences it has had.
