home/books/2025.md, before:

# 📚 Books read in 2025

## December

### The Wager, by David Grann

An excellently pieced together account of a ship, the Wager, and it's
tumultuous journey. The ship is wrecked en route and the stranded
survivors are pushed to extremes as they battle starvation and disease.
Recommended.

### Good Game, No Rematch, by Mike Drucker

Mismatched expectations. I would have loved a book about video games, 
maybe with some interesting facts and trivia into their history and
development and so on. What this is is a gamer's recollection of a lifetime
playing games before moving on to the Comedy and TV industries. 

### Fear and Loathing in La Liga, by Sid Lowe

An excellent peek into the history of these Barca and Madrid, starting from
the Spanish Civil War. It clears some of the misconceptions and easy
judgments people jump to about these clubs' political affiliations. 
Through the decades, we see the great players who changed the course of their
club's fortunes. Recommended!

### Rivers of London, Ben Aaronovitch

Those who like Jasper Fforde might like this modern fantasy of a policeman
recruited to the magical division, who investigates a series of gruesome
murders and is thrown in the middle of a conflict between the personifications
of London's Rivers.

## November

### Ninth House, by Leigh Bardugo

The protagonist, who can 'see dead people', is enlisted into a secretive magical
society and is immediately thrown in the middle of a murder and conspiracy. The
Houses at Yale are run by secret societies, each specializing in a form of magic;
she joins the Ninth one that oversees them all.

### Mother Mary Comes To Me, by Arundhati Roy

Not an easy read. The author revisits her life, from her difficult childhood to 
her years as an architect, a foray into films, her writing career and her activism.
The complex relationship she had with her mother is approached frankly but with
nuance and compassion. Neither person has had an easy life, but I admire them for
never taking the easy way out.

## October

### The Iliad and The Odyssey, by Gareth Hinds

These are graphic novel versions of the Iliad and the Odyssey. I really loved
the art style.

### Funny Because It's True, by Christine Wenc

A history of The Onion, from it's early College days and it's zenith during the 
pre-internet era, to the eventual downfall once 'content', impressions and the
pursuit of clicks eventually (almost) killed it. Would've loved if this was as
funny as it ought to be but it is mostly an insider look at the organization and
the constant push-and-pull between the Editorial and Business teams.

## September

### Archimedes' Revenge, by Paul Hoffman

An excellent assortment of maths curiosities. I particularly liked the chapters on
computers: this book was written in the 80's, and it is fascinating to see
how far the industry has grown since the days of room-sized computers.

## August

### Fatherland, by Robert Harris

The fifth book I've read of this excellent author, and as always a unique blend
of history and speculation. This time the author imagines an alternate history
where Germany won the Second World War.

## July

### The Saint of Bright Doors, by Vajra Chandrasekera

A surreal, shifting novel that is part Rushdie, part Kafka and part I don't
know who else. I had the nagging feeling there was more to the book than what I
was reading (resemblances to pogroms in Sri Lanka perhaps?). Some thing or the
other constantly happens that you'd never foresee, and the character's fate and
choices diverge and converge in unexpected ways. Highly recommended.

### The Dictionary People, by Sarah Ogilvie

A history of the OED primarily from the perspective of the people who
contributed to it, wikipedia-style, by sending postcards with words and their
earlier recorded usage and meanings. The book focuses on the interesting,
unknown and eccentric types (the longest chapter is *L for Lunatic*).

### Narcopolis, by Jeet Thayil

An opium-filled ode to old Bombay, full of highs and (mostly) lows. The book
traces the lives of several characters frequenting an opium den. Shades of A
Scanner Darkly and Trainspotting but with a more Indian vibe.

## June

### Being Human: Life Lessons from the Frontiers of Science, by Robert Sapolsky

I'm a fan of Sapolsky already and this was a light entry into the kind of stuff
he's good at. Each chapter is an introduction to some interesting topic in
anthropology or biology, such as the fascinating one on brain parasites.

## May

### The Anxious Generation, by Jonathan Haidt

As someone who is already aware of--and wholeheartedly despises--social media's
ill effects and the dark patterns used by these apps, a lot of this book was
not new to me. Could it have been condensed to a few long blog posts rather
than a full book? The gist of the book is to increase play-time outside and
restrict phone/social-media usage for kids. I much prefer Haidt's earlier
books, **The Righteous Mind** and **The Happiness Hypothesis**.

### The Hunting Party, by Lucy Foley

A thriller to change the pace a bit. A bunch of snobbish rich couples spend the
New Year in a remote, snowy retreat and things start to fall apart as one of
the guests is killed. Each chapter is told from the view-point of one of the
characters and gives a nice insight into the masks they wear and how they
actually feel about each other on the inside.

### Mind Master, by Vishwanathan Anand

The book starts a bit simple and does not involve any deep chess lessons. There
are some simple lessons the ghost-writer tries to tie back as advice to others.
Later in the book things get more interesting as we get to see some interesting
background on the preparation and travel and stress that happens behind the
scenes.

### ❤️Leech, by Hiron Ennes

This was recommended by the excellent Peter Watts in [this
interview](https://www.forbes.com/sites/olliebarder/2025/04/09/peter-watts-on-blindsight-armored-core-and-working-with-neill-blomkamp/).
It has been a while since I've read a science fiction book this good! A
parasitic hive-mind that inhabits a bunch of people meets a competitor in an
atmospheric post-apocalyptic world. Finished this in a single long sitting.

### The Chess Revolution, by Peter Doggers

A survey of chess from its earliest days to the AI stage and the current 
surge post-covid.
I felt this was a bit bland, considering the rich history and characters
involved. Here is a quote I liked from it, and I wish there were more 
like this:

> "The passion for playing chess is one of the most unaccountable in 
the world. It slaps the theory of natural selection in the face. It is
the most absorbing of occupations. The least satisfying of desires. A
nameless excrescence upon life. It annihilates a man. You have, let us 
say, a promising politician, a rising artist that you wish to destroy.
Dagger or bomb are archaic and unreliable -- but teach him, inoculate
him with chess."

-- H.G. Wells

## April

### Engima, by Robert Harris

Another excellent book from the master of historical fiction. This one
is set in Bletchley Park during World War II. The protagonist is a code-
breaker. What I liked most is how the story itself unfolds like an
engima that the protagonist has to crack.

### How to Read Literature Like a Professor, by Thomas Foster

I had some questions in this area before I started this book, chiefly,
"Am I reading too much into the symbolism of so-and-so text, and did the
author really have all this in mind?" In this book, the author anticipates
this question and his answer is, almost certainly yes, the author did
indeed plant that suggestion/phrase/analogy intentionally.

The book covers many other themes that help a reader go beneath the 
surface of a book. Many were things I was familiar to but I appreciated the
examples throughout. Particularly, one of the last chapters is a fantastic
analysis of a Mansfield short story, from the eyes of a beginner, an expert
and finally the author. There is also a good reading list in the appending.

### Bewildered, by Richard Powers

The life of an astrobiologist and his son in a world blind to the impact
of climate change. Very well written but quite bleak. There are thin 
allusions to famous characters in the real world. 

### World War II - A very short introduction, by Gerhard L. Weinberg

These short intros from Oxford are a great way to dip into an interesting 
topic. Having a read a much larger book recently, this one was a concise 
summary of the whole war.

## March

### Second Sleep, by Robert Harris

My third consecutive book by this author. This one is purely fictional, and 
it is better to go in blind with this one. A priest goes to a remote town 
after his predecessor passes away, and has to solve the mystery of his death. 

### Dictator, by Robert Harris

A gloomy conclusion to the trilogy as Cicero chased out of Rome, and returns,
but to unpredictable allies. No decision seems straightforward here and Rome's
decline to dictatorship seems inevitable.

### ❤️Lustrum, by Robert Harris

It turns out this is book two of a trilogy. It covers the life of Cicero when
he joins the Roman Senate and watches the rise of Caesar and his triumverate.
As my first literary exposure to this period of history, it was fascinating to
see the story from the 'other' side, i.e. not Caesar's.

Highly recommended and I have already started the sequel, *Dictator*.

### History of the Second World War, by Liddell Hart

A massive, dense, monumental summary of World War II, from a purely military
perspective. I have a new-found appreciation for military history after reading
this book. The author dispassionately (?) assesses each side's manoeuvres
through each phase of the war, and has frank assessments of the mistakes, lucky
breaks, and decisiveness (or lack thereof) that shaped the outcome of each of
those battles.

## January

### ❤️The Lord of the Rings, by J R R Tolkien

This is my - I don't know - fourth or fifth read of this treasure? This time I
paid special attention to the geography and timelines of the whole journey: one
of the few things that does not translate over well in the movies.

### Verissimus, by Donald Robertson

This is a graphic novel that covers Marcus Aurelius's life. Those who know it
will know he went through several wars with neighbouring regions, a civil war
in his own, health issues and so on, but strived to accept what he could not
control and act on what he could. I wonder if his constant indifference to
slander was the right choice though.

### Classics: A Very Short Introduction, by Mary Beard

I thought this would be a history and overview of Classic Literature like
Dickens. It turned out to be a lot more interesting. Taking the excavation of a
Greek Temple to Apollo in the remote town of Bassae in Greece, the authors
elegantly explain how it touches each generation's perspectives on ancient
Greek and Roman cultures, philosophy and art.

For instance, it traces the origin of the phrase "Et in Arcadia ego" from a
story in Virgil about two shepherds in Bassae, to a Pope interpreting it in his
own way, to a Victorian-era painter interpreting it in his own, and so on.

Very enjoyable!

### I, Claudius, by Robert Graves

A sprawling history of several Roman emperors from Augustus to Tiberius and
Caligula, ending with the author himself: a stuttering, limping Claudius who
preferred to be a historian and watched from the sidelines as one generation
after another schemed and killed their way to succession. I believe this are
many fictional liberties taken but this is a fun read nevertheless.

### The Secret History, by Donna Tartt

A dark, fascinating novel about a group of elite students obsessed with ancient
Greek language, philosophy and ritual.  The narrator, like Gatsby's Nick
Carraway, serves as the outsider's view into the lives of these secretive
wealthy students and their brooding leader.

Commit message:

Add 'The Calcutta Chromosome' to December reading list
Added a new book entry for 'The Calcutta Chromosome' by Amitav Ghosh, including a brief description.

home/books/2025.md, after:

# 📚 Books read in 2025

## December

### The Calcutta Chromosome, by Amitav Ghosh

An excellent writer's foray into Science Fiction. As with his other 
books, the historical parts come to life really well.

### The Wager, by David Grann

An excellently pieced together account of a ship, the Wager, and it's
tumultuous journey. The ship is wrecked en route and the stranded
survivors are pushed to extremes as they battle starvation and disease.
Recommended.

### Good Game, No Rematch, by Mike Drucker

Mismatched expectations. I would have loved a book about video games, 
maybe with some interesting facts and trivia into their history and
development and so on. What this is is a gamer's recollection of a lifetime
playing games before moving on to the Comedy and TV industries. 

### Fear and Loathing in La Liga, by Sid Lowe

An excellent peek into the history of these Barca and Madrid, starting from
the Spanish Civil War. It clears some of the misconceptions and easy
judgments people jump to about these clubs' political affiliations. 
Through the decades, we see the great players who changed the course of their
club's fortunes. Recommended!

### Rivers of London, Ben Aaronovitch

Those who like Jasper Fforde might like this modern fantasy of a policeman
recruited to the magical division, who investigates a series of gruesome
murders and is thrown in the middle of a conflict between the personifications
of London's Rivers.

## November

### Ninth House, by Leigh Bardugo

The protagonist, who can 'see dead people', is enlisted into a secretive magical
society and is immediately thrown in the middle of a murder and conspiracy. The
Houses at Yale are run by secret societies, each specializing in a form of magic;
she joins the Ninth one that oversees them all.

### Mother Mary Comes To Me, by Arundhati Roy

Not an easy read. The author revisits her life, from her difficult childhood to 
her years as an architect, a foray into films, her writing career and her activism.
The complex relationship she had with her mother is approached frankly but with
nuance and compassion. Neither person has had an easy life, but I admire them for
never taking the easy way out.

## October

### The Iliad and The Odyssey, by Gareth Hinds

These are graphic novel versions of the Iliad and the Odyssey. I really loved
the art style.

### Funny Because It's True, by Christine Wenc

A history of The Onion, from it's early College days and it's zenith during the 
pre-internet era, to the eventual downfall once 'content', impressions and the
pursuit of clicks eventually (almost) killed it. Would've loved if this was as
funny as it ought to be but it is mostly an insider look at the organization and
the constant push-and-pull between the Editorial and Business teams.

## September

### Archimedes' Revenge, by Paul Hoffman

An excellent assortment of maths curiosities. I particularly liked the chapters on
computers: this book was written in the 80's, and it is fascinating to see
how far the industry has grown since the days of room-sized computers.

## August

### Fatherland, by Robert Harris

The fifth book I've read of this excellent author, and as always a unique blend
of history and speculation. This time the author imagines an alternate history
where Germany won the Second World War.

## July

### The Saint of Bright Doors, by Vajra Chandrasekera

A surreal, shifting novel that is part Rushdie, part Kafka and part I don't
know who else. I had the nagging feeling there was more to the book than what I
was reading (resemblances to pogroms in Sri Lanka perhaps?). Some thing or the
other constantly happens that you'd never foresee, and the character's fate and
choices diverge and converge in unexpected ways. Highly recommended.

### The Dictionary People, by Sarah Ogilvie

A history of the OED primarily from the perspective of the people who
contributed to it, wikipedia-style, by sending postcards with words and their
earlier recorded usage and meanings. The book focuses on the interesting,
unknown and eccentric types (the longest chapter is *L for Lunatic*).

### Narcopolis, by Jeet Thayil

An opium-filled ode to old Bombay, full of highs and (mostly) lows. The book
traces the lives of several characters frequenting an opium den. Shades of A
Scanner Darkly and Trainspotting but with a more Indian vibe.

## June

### Being Human: Life Lessons from the Frontiers of Science, by Robert Sapolsky

I'm a fan of Sapolsky already and this was a light entry into the kind of stuff
he's good at. Each chapter is an introduction to some interesting topic in
anthropology or biology, such as the fascinating one on brain parasites.

## May

### The Anxious Generation, by Jonathan Haidt

As someone who is already aware of--and wholeheartedly despises--social media's
ill effects and the dark patterns used by these apps, a lot of this book was
not new to me. Could it have been condensed to a few long blog posts rather
than a full book? The gist of the book is to increase play-time outside and
restrict phone/social-media usage for kids. I much prefer Haidt's earlier
books, **The Righteous Mind** and **The Happiness Hypothesis**.

### The Hunting Party, by Lucy Foley

A thriller to change the pace a bit. A bunch of snobbish rich couples spend the
New Year in a remote, snowy retreat and things start to fall apart as one of
the guests is killed. Each chapter is told from the view-point of one of the
characters and gives a nice insight into the masks they wear and how they
actually feel about each other on the inside.

### Mind Master, by Vishwanathan Anand

The book starts a bit simple and does not involve any deep chess lessons. There
are some simple lessons the ghost-writer tries to tie back as advice to others.
Later in the book things get more interesting as we get to see some interesting
background on the preparation and travel and stress that happens behind the
scenes.

### ❤️Leech, by Hiron Ennes

This was recommended by the excellent Peter Watts in [this
interview](https://www.forbes.com/sites/olliebarder/2025/04/09/peter-watts-on-blindsight-armored-core-and-working-with-neill-blomkamp/).
It has been a while since I've read a science fiction book this good! A
parasitic hive-mind that inhabits a bunch of people meets a competitor in an
atmospheric post-apocalyptic world. Finished this in a single long sitting.

### The Chess Revolution, by Peter Doggers

A survey of chess from its earliest days to the AI stage and the current 
surge post-covid.
I felt this was a bit bland, considering the rich history and characters
involved. Here is a quote I liked from it, and I wish there were more 
like this:

> "The passion for playing chess is one of the most unaccountable in 
the world. It slaps the theory of natural selection in the face. It is
the most absorbing of occupations. The least satisfying of desires. A
nameless excrescence upon life. It annihilates a man. You have, let us 
say, a promising politician, a rising artist that you wish to destroy.
Dagger or bomb are archaic and unreliable -- but teach him, inoculate
him with chess."

-- H.G. Wells

## April

### Engima, by Robert Harris

Another excellent book from the master of historical fiction. This one
is set in Bletchley Park during World War II. The protagonist is a code-
breaker. What I liked most is how the story itself unfolds like an
engima that the protagonist has to crack.

### How to Read Literature Like a Professor, by Thomas Foster

I had some questions in this area before I started this book, chiefly,
"Am I reading too much into the symbolism of so-and-so text, and did the
author really have all this in mind?" In this book, the author anticipates
this question and his answer is, almost certainly yes, the author did
indeed plant that suggestion/phrase/analogy intentionally.

The book covers many other themes that help a reader go beneath the 
surface of a book. Many were things I was familiar to but I appreciated the
examples throughout. Particularly, one of the last chapters is a fantastic
analysis of a Mansfield short story, from the eyes of a beginner, an expert
and finally the author. There is also a good reading list in the appending.

### Bewildered, by Richard Powers

The life of an astrobiologist and his son in a world blind to the impact
of climate change. Very well written but quite bleak. There are thin 
allusions to famous characters in the real world. 

### World War II - A very short introduction, by Gerhard L. Weinberg

These short intros from Oxford are a great way to dip into an interesting 
topic. Having a read a much larger book recently, this one was a concise 
summary of the whole war.

## March

### Second Sleep, by Robert Harris

My third consecutive book by this author. This one is purely fictional, and 
it is better to go in blind with this one. A priest goes to a remote town 
after his predecessor passes away, and has to solve the mystery of his death. 

### Dictator, by Robert Harris

A gloomy conclusion to the trilogy as Cicero chased out of Rome, and returns,
but to unpredictable allies. No decision seems straightforward here and Rome's
decline to dictatorship seems inevitable.

### ❤️Lustrum, by Robert Harris

It turns out this is book two of a trilogy. It covers the life of Cicero when
he joins the Roman Senate and watches the rise of Caesar and his triumverate.
As my first literary exposure to this period of history, it was fascinating to
see the story from the 'other' side, i.e. not Caesar's.

Highly recommended and I have already started the sequel, *Dictator*.

### History of the Second World War, by Liddell Hart

A massive, dense, monumental summary of World War II, from a purely military
perspective. I have a new-found appreciation for military history after reading
this book. The author dispassionately (?) assesses each side's manoeuvres
through each phase of the war, and has frank assessments of the mistakes, lucky
breaks, and decisiveness (or lack thereof) that shaped the outcome of each of
those battles.

## January

### ❤️The Lord of the Rings, by J R R Tolkien

This is my - I don't know - fourth or fifth read of this treasure? This time I
paid special attention to the geography and timelines of the whole journey: one
of the few things that does not translate over well in the movies.

### Verissimus, by Donald Robertson

This is a graphic novel that covers Marcus Aurelius's life. Those who know it
will know he went through several wars with neighbouring regions, a civil war
in his own, health issues and so on, but strived to accept what he could not
control and act on what he could. I wonder if his constant indifference to
slander was the right choice though.

### Classics: A Very Short Introduction, by Mary Beard

I thought this would be a history and overview of Classic Literature like
Dickens. It turned out to be a lot more interesting. Taking the excavation of a
Greek Temple to Apollo in the remote town of Bassae in Greece, the authors
elegantly explain how it touches each generation's perspectives on ancient
Greek and Roman cultures, philosophy and art.

For instance, it traces the origin of the phrase "Et in Arcadia ego" from a
story in Virgil about two shepherds in Bassae, to a Pope interpreting it in his
own way, to a Victorian-era painter interpreting it in his own, and so on.

Very enjoyable!

### I, Claudius, by Robert Graves

A sprawling history of several Roman emperors from Augustus to Tiberius and
Caligula, ending with the author himself: a stuttering, limping Claudius who
preferred to be a historian and watched from the sidelines as one generation
after another schemed and killed their way to succession. I believe this are
many fictional liberties taken but this is a fun read nevertheless.

### The Secret History, by Donna Tartt

A dark, fascinating novel about a group of elite students obsessed with ancient
Greek language, philosophy and ritual.  The narrator, like Gatsby's Nick
Carraway, serves as the outsider's view into the lives of these secretive
wealthy students and their brooding leader.
