# ðŸ“š Books read in 2025

## March

### History of the Second World War, Liddell Hart

A massive, dense, monumental summary of World War II, from a purely military
perspective. I have a new-found appreciation for military history after reading
this book. The author dispassionately (?) assesses each side's manoeuvres
through each phase of the war, and has frank assessments of the mistakes, lucky
breaks, and decisiveness (or lack thereof) that shaped the outcome of each of
those battles.

## January

### The Lord of the Rings, by J R R Tolkien

This is my - I don't know - fourth or fifth read of this treasure? This time I
paid special attention to the geography and timelines of the whole journey: one
of the few things that does not translate over well in the movies.

### Verissimus, by Donald Robertson

This is a graphic novel that covers Marcus Aurelius's life. Those who know it
will know he went through several wars with neighbouring regions, a civil war
in his own, health issues and so on, but strived to accept what he could not
control and act on what he could. I wonder if his constant indifference to
slander was the right choice though.

### Classics: A Very Short Introduction, by Mary Beard

I thought this would be a history and overview of Classic Literature like
Dickens. It turned out to be a lot more interesting. Taking the excavation of a
Greek Temple to Apollo in the remote town of Bassae in Greece, the authors
elegantly explain how it touches each generation's perspectives on ancient
Greek and Roman cultures, philosophy and art.

For instance, it traces the origin of the phrase "Et in Arcadia ego" from a
story in Virgil about two shepherds in Bassae, to a Pope interpreting it in his
own way, to a Victorian-era painter interpreting it in his own, and so on.

Very enjoyable!

### I, Claudius, by Robert Graves

A sprawling history of several Roman emperors from Augustus to Tiberius and
Caligula, ending with the author himself: a stuttering, limping Claudius who
preferred to be a historian and watched from the sidelines as one generation
after another schemed and killed their way to succession. I believe this are
many fictional liberties taken but this is a fun read nevertheless.

### The Secret History, by Donna Tartt

A dark, fascinating novel about a group of elite students obsessed with ancient
Greek language, philosophy and ritual.  The narrator, like Gatsby's Nick
Carraway, serves as the outsider's view into the lives of these secretive
wealthy students and their brooding leader.


