# 📚 Books read in 2026

## March

### Rubicon, by Tom Holland

An excellent history of the end of the Roman Republic. The glory, the politics, and, always in 
the background, the utter savagery behind the veneer of civilization. Caesar and the triumvirate 
are willing to mow down anything standing in the path of their quest for unlimited power. Human 
nature never changes I suppose. Excellent book.

## February

### Cato: A Tragedy, by Joseph Addison

A brief play covering the last few days of Cato's life. Caesar is at the gates and Rome's fall
seems inevitable. The play follows Cato, his family and closest advisors as they navigate their
own conundrums and loyalties. This was written in 1713 and holds up quite well.

### Vita Nostra, by Marina and Sergey Dyachenko

I read an English translation of this strange Russian fantasy. The story follows a promising
student's rise in a school of surreal magic. I loved the sense of unknowable complexity of
the world the students are trying to pierce, the unexplainable cruelty of the teaching methond,
and the limits of human language in conveying something that the mind cannot conceive.

## January

### Lord of Light, by Roger Zelazny

An enjoyable speculative sci-fi tale of a far future where an advanced group has solved
re-incarnation and elevated themselves to godhood, styling themselves after the Hindu Gods.
They govern humanity by controlling thir karmic cycle and offering godhood as a faraway boon.
Their reign is challenged by one of their own, who has a promethean desire to accelerate
it to the masses.

### What We Can Know, by Ian McEwan

Midway through the book I was not sure if I should keep going, and if this was my kind of 
fiction. But I'm glad I stuck with it. In the near future, a historian looks at an 'Immortal
Lunch' hosted by a poet, that contained the only known rendition of a lost poem. A 
thoughtful look at how history remembers its heroes.
