home/index.md, before:

# arunsrin

Welcome to my home page.

## What's here

Commonly used commands are burned in my memory, but the less common
ones (e.g. during bring up of a new box) are a pain to search for each
time.

So here are notes I've collected over time on various things that
interest me.

### Tech Snippets

One-liners for a variety of tools I use regularly.. Linux, openssl and
so on.

  - [Docker](snippets/docker.md)
  - [Editors](snippets/editors.md)
  - [Git](snippets/git.md)
  - [Linux](snippets/linux/linux.md)
    - [Package Management](snippets/linux/package-management.md)
    - [Learnings & Notes](snippets/linux/learnings-and-notes.md)
    - [SystemD](snippets/linux/systemd.md)
  - [Networking](snippets/networking.md)
  - [OpenSSL](snippets/openssl.md)
  - [Programming](snippets/programming/programming.md)
    - [Databases](snippets/programming/databases.md)
    - [Java](snippets/programming/java.md)
  - [Security](snippets/security.md)

### Book Notes

I'm a voracious reader but I can't recollect stuff all that great. I'm
trying to take notes for some books that are worthy of revisits.

  - [Crypto 101](books/crypto101.md)
  - [We are our brains](books/we-are-our-brains.md)
  
## About

See [About](about.md) for more about me. This site is built using the
lovely [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org), a python-based static site
generator. The content is written in markdown using GNU Emacs. It is
hosted on [NFSN](https://nearlyfreespeech.net).

Commit message:

Added an in-progress section
- k8s links
- site ideas

home/index.md, after:

# arunsrin

Welcome to my home page.

## What's here

Commonly used commands are burned in my memory, but the less common
ones (e.g. during bring up of a new box) are a pain to search for each
time.

So here are notes I've collected over time on various things that
interest me.

### Tech Snippets

One-liners for a variety of tools I use regularly.. Linux, openssl and
so on.

  - [Docker](snippets/docker.md)
  - [Editors](snippets/editors.md)
  - [Git](snippets/git.md)
  - [Linux](snippets/linux/linux.md)
    - [Package Management](snippets/linux/package-management.md)
    - [Learnings & Notes](snippets/linux/learnings-and-notes.md)
    - [SystemD](snippets/linux/systemd.md)
  - [Networking](snippets/networking.md)
  - [OpenSSL](snippets/openssl.md)
  - [Programming](snippets/programming/programming.md)
    - [Databases](snippets/programming/databases.md)
    - [Java](snippets/programming/java.md)
  - [Security](snippets/security.md)

### Book Notes

I'm a voracious reader but I can't recollect stuff all that great. I'm
trying to take notes for some books that are worthy of revisits.

  - [Crypto 101](books/crypto101.md)
  - [We are our brains](books/we-are-our-brains.md)
  
### In Progress

Some in-progress notes topics of study.
  - [Site Ideas](inprogress/site-ideas.md)
  - [Kubernetes](inprogress/k8s.md)

## About

See [About](about.md) for more about me. This site is built using the
lovely [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org), a python-based static site
generator. The content is written in markdown using GNU Emacs. It is
hosted on [NFSN](https://nearlyfreespeech.net).
