home/research/productivity.md, before:

# Productivity

I like to experiment with different note taking systems. I used Emacs for the
longest.. more than a decade at work. Plain text still has its appeal. These
days I switch between tools like normal notebooks, OneNote, Evernote, Notion,
Roam, and so on.  As of this writing, OneNote seems to tick most of my boxes.


Earlier, I also used to hoard a lot of bookmarks. I did not seem to find any
use with them. So now I try to distil the key thoughts in them into a paragraph
or two. The pages on this site serves as an output for some of this research.

I also keep an eye on To do Apps. A combination of Google Calendar and MS To-do
actually works well enough for me. I think most procrastination comes from
fear: a fear of trying new things, of someone reprimanding you, and so on. So
with a combination of introspection and time-boxing for my tasks, I tend to be
reasonably productive at work.

## Note Taking - Analog
- [Research on non-linear note taking](http://www.idemployee.id.tue.nl/g.w.m.rauterberg/amme/makany-et-al-2008.pdf)
- [Some analog To Do systems](https://www.hongkiat.com/blog/to-do-lists-by-hand/). For those who
  want to try something other than Bullet Journals.
- [More paper propaganda](https://getpocket.com/explore/item/why-paper-is-the-real-killer-app)
- [Bullet journals for work](https://prettyprintsandpaper.com/2016/02/13/using-a-bullet-journal-at-work/)

## Note Taking - Other

- [Using the filesystem for notes](http://dougist.com/2009/08/file-system-infobase-manager/)
- [Zen and the art of File and Folder organization](https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/15677/zen-and-the-art-of-file-and-folder-organization/)
- [Some guy likes Roam](https://www.nateliason.com/blog/roam)
- Some thoughts on [building a second brain](https://praxis.fortelabs.co/basboverview/)

## Todo lists

- [Why calendars are better](https://getpocket.com/explore/item/why-calendars-are-more-effective-than-to-do-lists)

## Ask

- [Ask HN: How did you build up your personal knowledge base?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21332957)
- [What do you use for personal daily goals?](https://lobste.rs/s/dcckvi/what_do_you_use_for_personal_daily_goals)

Commit message:

Quite a bit of re-organizing
- Added a crypto page
- Added an index for books
- Cleaned up productivity page

home/research/productivity.md, after:

# Productivity

## Hobby Planning

Once a week I have a 'Planning' session. I skim through my To Dos, what I did this week and what I want to do the next week. This is purely for my personal hobbies and not for work. For example, on one week I might binge-watch a TV show that just came out, so the next week I try to spend more time reading. In this slot, I also skim through my long-term hobby goals, and see what medium / short term steps I'm taking towards reaching them.

Right now I like to balance my team between [reading](../books/index.md) and [playing games](../games/xboxone.md). 

Art is something I want to get better at so I try to do something there as well.

## Tools

I like and highly recommend the following tools:

- MS To Do - this has an indispensable feature called 'Plan My Day' which is the first thing I do every morning. Makes it quite easy to surface things that you had scheduled for a particular day. Cross Platform, so it's really easy to add and review periodically.
- OneNote - After using text-based editors for years, I've taken a liking to tools that support images. OneNote does this well with a great interface, 3 levels of 'folder' hierarchy and great integration with my stylus.
- Vim / [Typora](https://typora.io/) - I'm torn between markdown as a store of data and OneNote. Typora seems to bridge both worlds with a really nice UI and seamless integration for images.

# References

## Note Taking - Analog
- [Research on non-linear note taking](http://www.idemployee.id.tue.nl/g.w.m.rauterberg/amme/makany-et-al-2008.pdf)
- [Some analog To Do systems](https://www.hongkiat.com/blog/to-do-lists-by-hand/). For those who
  want to try something other than Bullet Journals.
- [More paper propaganda](https://getpocket.com/explore/item/why-paper-is-the-real-killer-app)
- [Bullet journals for work](https://prettyprintsandpaper.com/2016/02/13/using-a-bullet-journal-at-work/)

## Note Taking - Other

- [Using the filesystem for notes](http://dougist.com/2009/08/file-system-infobase-manager/)
- [Zen and the art of File and Folder organization](https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/15677/zen-and-the-art-of-file-and-folder-organization/)
- [Some guy likes Roam](https://www.nateliason.com/blog/roam)
- Some thoughts on [building a second brain](https://praxis.fortelabs.co/basboverview/)

## Todo lists

- [Why calendars are better](https://getpocket.com/explore/item/why-calendars-are-more-effective-than-to-do-lists)

## Ask

- [Ask HN: How did you build up your personal knowledge base?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21332957)
- [What do you use for personal daily goals?](https://lobste.rs/s/dcckvi/what_do_you_use_for_personal_daily_goals)
