home/research/psychology.md, before:

# Psychology


###  Taleb criticism
- [Risk](http://curi.us/2242-taleb-is-wrong-killing-millions-actually-is-risky)

### Pinker criticism
- [One section of Enlightenment now](https://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/d9aaad_8b76c6c86f314d0288161ae8a47a9821.pdf)
- [Misleading claims, false assertions](https://www.salon.com/2019/01/26/steven-pinkers-fake-enlightenment-his-book-is-full-of-misleading-claims-and-false-assertions/)

###  Gates / Pinker inequality criticism
- [Jason Hickel on Pinker and poverty](https://www.jasonhickel.org/blog/2019/2/3/pinker-and-global-poverty)
- [Hickel again](https://www.jasonhickel.org/blog/2019/3/1/global-inequality-from-1980-to-2016)
- [On The better angels of our nature](https://twitter.com/magi_jay/status/972957975362056200)

### Pop psychology
- [Malcolm Gladwell's 'Talking to Strangers' Doesn't Say Much - The Atlantic](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/09/when-malcolm-gladwell-says-nothing-at-all/597697/)

> This, not coincidentally, is the method of pop social science, on whose
> rickety findings Gladwell has built his reputation as a public intellectual.
> In its most decadent and easily marketed form, social science specializes in
> taking axioms known to every 19th-century schoolteacher and duding them up as
> heuristics or effects or biases.

- [Replication crisis](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/11/psychologys-replication-crisis-real/576223/)

- This is on priming research. The replicability-index i.e. R-index is low:
  " The chapter cites 12 articles and 11 of the 12 articles have an R-Index
  below 50." [Good blog with reply from Kahnemann
  agreeing](https://replicationindex.com/2017/02/02/reconstruction-of-a-train-wreck-how-priming-research-went-of-the-rails/comment-page-1/#comment-1454)

Commit message:

lots of links cleaned up

home/research/psychology.md, after:

# Psychology

I have a slight mistrust of pop psychology books that make fancy claims and spin
small studies into large claims. Here are some good links that dissect them
better than I could.


###  Taleb criticism
- [Turning Taleb's Precautionary Principle on
  itself](http://curi.us/2242-taleb-is-wrong-killing-millions-actually-is-risky)

### Pinker criticism
- [One section of Enlightenment now](https://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/d9aaad_8b76c6c86f314d0288161ae8a47a9821.pdf)
- [Misleading claims, false assertions](https://www.salon.com/2019/01/26/steven-pinkers-fake-enlightenment-his-book-is-full-of-misleading-claims-and-false-assertions/)

###  Gates / Pinker inequality criticism
- [Jason Hickel on Pinker and poverty](https://www.jasonhickel.org/blog/2019/2/3/pinker-and-global-poverty)
- [Hickel again](https://www.jasonhickel.org/blog/2019/3/1/global-inequality-from-1980-to-2016)
- [On The better angels of our nature](https://twitter.com/magi_jay/status/972957975362056200)

### Pop psychology
- [Malcolm Gladwell's 'Talking to Strangers' Doesn't Say Much - The Atlantic](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/09/when-malcolm-gladwell-says-nothing-at-all/597697/)

> This, not coincidentally, is the method of pop social science, on whose
> rickety findings Gladwell has built his reputation as a public intellectual.
> In its most decadent and easily marketed form, social science specializes in
> taking axioms known to every 19th-century schoolteacher and duding them up as
> heuristics or effects or biases.

- [Replication crisis](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/11/psychologys-replication-crisis-real/576223/)

- This is on priming research. The replicability-index i.e. R-index is low:
  " The chapter cites 12 articles and 11 of the 12 articles have an R-Index
  below 50." [Good blog (links to reply from Kahnemann, agreeing to its
  claims](https://replicationindex.com/2017/02/02/reconstruction-of-a-train-wreck-how-priming-research-went-of-the-rails/comment-page-1/#comment-1454)
