# ðŸŽ® 2019 and before

I got my Xbox One in 2018 and it rekindled my love of gaming. Prior
to this I had a few handhelds (Vita and 3DS) and played a bit on my
PC.

The ones with a â™¥ are highly recommended.

## Far Cry 4

Almost as good as 5. Better story as well. I think I like 5 more only because I
played it first.

## Shadow of the Tomb Raider

Fun game, great visuals and stealth sections. Little disappointed with the
overall game. I can't put my hand to exactly what felt wrong.

## â™¥**Far Cry 5**

Probably my favourite game on the console so far. Amazing open world, supports
a lot of play styles, nice co-op AI partners.

## â™¥**Rayman Legends**

My kids love this. Exquisite level design & music. You can go back to this a
hundred times and not get bored.

What I like most is that the levels are as easy and hard as you want them to
be, unlike most platformers that are annoyingly hard.

## Life is Strange

I felt a little old playing this, but it was worth completing. I really liked
that the protagonist is into photography, and they spend a lot of effort in
showing that passion beyond just the basics. It reminded me of the opening of
*Beyond Good and Evil* where you just walk around taking photographs of
animals.

I could sense the game manipulating me at the end towards a binary choice.

## Gears of War 4

Like a Michael Bay movie. Fun diversion for a few hours.

## Batman: Arkham Knight

Disappointing. Too much driving.

## INSIDE

Lovely little gem of a game.

## Watch Dogs

Pretty fun game except for the brooding protagonist.

## â™¥**Titanfall 2**

Absolutely phenomenal single-player campaign. One of the few games I've gone
back to and replayed. Constantly throws new things at you. And the movement in
this game is just *sublime*.

## â™¥**Rise of the Tomb Raider**

Probably my favourite series. I have fond memories of playing *Tomb Raider:
Legend* on my PS2. I love how *vertical* this whole game is.

## Mass Effect: Andromeda

I wish they made more games like this. Phenomenal world designs. Sped through
the last quarter of the game but what I loved most was exploring each planet in
the early stages.

## Bioshock

I'd played it earlier on PC and sped through the first part. Not a fan of the
choice system, but enjoyable otherwise.

## Homefront Revolution

Ignore the reviews, this is a fun game. Very nice tension where you're
initially avoiding an overpowered enemy, and slowly instigating enough of a
rebellion to tip the balance.

## Halo 5

Decent single player campaign. Skipped the multiplayer bits. Had no idea what
was going on story-wise, as I've never payed a Halo before.

## Call of Duty - Infinite Warfare

Tolerable single player campaign. Titanfall 2 does this kind of thing a lot
better.

## Deus Ex: Mankind Divided

Badly wanted to like this game, but didn't. I love the world and character
design but really hated the gameplay. I felt like the smallest mistake in the
stealth gameplay messed the entire level and didn't want to reload and replay
each time I made a mistake. So I switched to a more lethal approach to finish
the game.


