# 🎮 Games played in 2020

This was the year I played all the Gears games (except Tactics), and
thoroughly enjoyed them.

The ones with a ❤️ are highly recommended.

## Gears 5

Again, an enjoyable game. Quite different from the classics but good in its own
way.

## Gears 2, Gears 3

Finished the remaining legacy Gears games during the 2020 year-end holidays. An
excellent series from start to finish.

## ❤️**Gears of War**

Mindless fun. Thoroughly enjoyed playing this and now I intend to play through
the rest of the series. Phenomenal weapons (the Hammer of Dawn, the Lancer),
memorable boss fights.

## Rage 2

I have a soft spot for this series so I liked it. I loved the post-apocalyptic
world-design.

## ❤️**Assassin's Creed Odyssey**

I've loved greek mythology all my life so this was an amazing experience. Very
nice variety in play styles (ranger/warrior/assassin), and constant loots and
upgrades made for a addictive gameplay loop. Side quest plots are pretty
average.

## Injustice 2

Kids loved it. Nice single player campaign, but a bit short.

## Watch Dogs 2

It took me several attempts to get into this game. The open world is beautiful,
and so is the satirical take on Silicon Valley. The part I struggled with was
the annoying stealth gameplay. I truly started enjoying it only after switching
my play style to a more aggressive mode.

## Thief

An enjoyable game. I loved their stealth implementation (over other games like
Deus Ex: Mankind Divided). There were some truly thrilling moments during the
game.

