# 🎮 Games played in 2021

I wanted to finish all the Halo games this year but was only able to
play Reach, 1 and 2.

I'm still going through Halo 3 and Infinite in parallel.

Overall this was a nice year! I resubscribed to Game Pass and was
able to play a lot of different genres.

The ones with a ❤️ are highly recommended.

## The Gunk

Another short game that I finished in just over a day. Lovely world design and
visuals. Quite relaxing too.

## Firewatch

A short mystery game with lovely visuals. Finished it in one day.

## Halo 2

This was definitely better than the first. Less cut-and-paste levels. The story
is starting to get quite interesting too..

## ❤️**Halo: Reach**

My favourite Halo so far! Absolutely blew me away, both gameplay and
story-wise. I flew into this without any context and enjoyed the heck out of
it. It surprised me in a couple of places, which is always nice.

## Halo: CE

With Infinite releasing soon, I thought it would be nice to dip my feet into
this franchise. The first game feels a bit dated in some ways, but was pretty
enjoyable overall.

## Last Stop

Another interactive story. A light, funny science fiction plot with 3
intersecting stories.


## Lost Words: Beyond the Page

A touching story of a child coping with loss through stories. Lovely art style
and story.

## Ryse: Son of Rome

A lovely, violent game. Was perfectly sized too and mixed mechanics well.

## The Dark Pictures Anthology: Man Of Medan

A fun horror adventure with 4 interlocking characters in an abandoned ship.
This game kindled my love for story-driven experiences.

## Quantum Break

A  game based on time-travel with alternating filmed episodes. A lot of fun!

There are alternate chapters with filmed cutscenes.

## Resident Evil Revelations 2

Enjoyed this. Looks like it'd be nice as a co-op game too. I don't like the
survival parts of survival horror much so thankfully the easy mode was
forgiving.

## ❤️**Darksiders 2**

Had a blast playing this. Lovely world design, fun puzzles, and enough variety
to constantly keep thing fresh.

## Assassin's Creed Origins

Everyone said this was better than Odyssey and indeed it is. The side quests
are way better and everything feels well designed.

## Diablo 3

I played in easy mode as a Mage and it was perhaps too easy. So I did not feel
like playing again with a different characters. All characters seemed to have
the same actions with just different animations.

I was quite hyped to play this but it felt a bit disappointing.

