# 🎮 2022

## ♥**Immortality**

Played this on PC Game Pass over a fevered weekend. I've never played anything
quite like this! A true work of art. I made several mistakes that spoiled my
experience, but those are my faults and not the game's:

- Playing with a keyboard / mouse instead of controller: I missed a critical
  mechanic until too late in the game
- Playing with low audio: Another reason for missing the mechanic

## Batman: The Enemy Within

I'd played part one earlier this year so I decided to finish the series. As
with the first part, the visuals are quite nice (I switched between the Classic
and Shadows edition after each chapter). The game is quite straight-forward and
you don't have to overthink your choices.

## Immortals: Fenyx Rising

A thoroughly enjoyable adventure from Ubisoft. Humorous cast, lovely open world
that is a joy to glide over, and upgrades that add new abilities instead of
just increase the damage percentage.

Like any ubisoft game, you have to unlock each region and rescue a Greek God
there. I played the first two regions extensively and then rushed through the
next two, until I finished the game in a hectic weekend. There's enough variety
in the puzzles to keep things fresh but the number of things to unlock gets a
bit exhausting.

## TMNT: Shredder's Revenge

A must-play if you love the Turtles TV show and comics from the 90's. It's got
all the characters from the old days, a cheerful, humorous atmosphere and great
co-op. I struggled near the end on single player and it was nice to switch to a
multiplayer match and finish the game with a team of six.

## Trek to Yomi

Worth playing just for the visuals. Designed to look like an old Japanese
movie, with scratches on the screen edges etc. Finished it over the weekend, so
it is short (in a nice way) too.

## Halo 4

I'm done with all the Halo FPS's with this one. I had a blast playing through
the series. The MCC collection has a great Extras section with all the Terminal
videos, and it was nice to see the millennia-spanning back-story. It looks like
343 took over from Bungie at this game, and they did a fine job preserving the
spirit of the game while extending the story.

## Halo: ODST

This was a short and sweet game that I finished on one peaceful Saturday. It's
nice to the see the old cast from Firefly make an appearance here.

## ♥**Guardians of the Galaxy**

This is what Marvel's Avengers could have been. Pure joy from start to finish,
completely focused on telling a good story with a humorous cast. The team's
powers make for some excellent gameplay too. And quite beautiful to look at.

## Batman: The Telltale Series

This is a fun game with some nice detecting additions over the usual
Telltale formula. The *Shadows Edition* is beautiful and I switched to it
mid-way and stayed with it till the end.

The plot has some similarities to 2022's *The Batman*.

## The Walking Dead: A New Frontier

I skipped the other Walking Dead games and jumped straight to this one. As
always the roads all feel like they lead to the same place. But the plot
is well made and the character dynamics are interesting.

## ♥**Halo: Infinite**

I had loads of fun with this game. All the new additions are huge improvements.
The grappleshot is fun to use and does more than just aid in climbing. Shoot it
at a shield to stun an enemy, at a vehicle to board it, and use its powerful
melee attack when you grapple onto an enemy.

This is also the first Halo I've played where I had to constantly use the
environment, like the exploding canisters, and switch between different weapons
based on the enemy. e.g. the skewer for vehicles.

The move to open-world is also a great choice. I spent a lot of the early game
in just exploring the world. The ground vehicles can get a bit bouncy but
things got fun when I stole an airborne vehicle.

Highly recommended and my favourite Halo alongside *Reach*.

## Contrast

Another little gem from game pass. Short and sweet, with a really unique
mechanism where you can turn into a shadow and move across surfaces.

## Mortal Kombat XI

I have fond memories of playing the first 4 MK's back in the day. So after a
long time, it was great to come back to this series. The cutscenes are really
nice and quite long, giving a movie-like feel in this game. The gameplay and
gore are fun as always.

## Halo 3

I had a month's gap midway through this game so I lost some context on what was
going on. But I enjoyed this game.

## Incomplete / In Progress

I spent January in Chennai and did not bring my console along. But I have a
low-end gaming laptop that has served as a fair replacement. So far, I've spent
most of my gaming time on these two:

- State of Decay 2: Juggernaut Edition - This seems like my ideal vision of a
  zombie game so I'm really enjoying it so far! I've just played a couple of
  hours but I like that it's more about resource management than shooting
  zombies.
- Lake - This is a peaceful game to balance with the one above. Abandoned
  because I wanted something with a bit more punch.
- Aragamai 2 - Really enjoying the stealth-ghost-ninja gameplay. New powers
  keep things interesting.
