home/games/2022.md, before:

# 🎮 2022

## ♥**Halo: Infinite**

I had loads of fun with this game. All the new additions are huge improvements.
The grappleshot is fun to use and does more than just aid in climbing. Shoot it
at a shield to stun an enemy, at a vehicle to board it, and use its powerful
melee attack when you grapple onto an enemy.

This is also the first Halo I've played where I had to constantly use the
environment, like the exploding canisters, and switch between different weapons
based on the enemy. e.g. the skewer for vehicles.

The move to open-world is also a great choice. I spent a lot of the early game
in just exploring the world. The ground vehicles can get a bit bouncy but
things got fun when I stole an airborne vehicle.

Highly recommended and my favourite Halo alongside *Reach*.

## Contrast

Another little gem from game pass. Short and sweet, with a really unique
mechanism where you can turn into a shadow and move across surfaces.

## Mortal Kombat XI

I have fond memories of playing the first 4 MK's back in the day. So after a
long time, it was great to come back to this series. The cutscenes are really
nice and quite long, giving a movie-like feel in this game. The gameplay and
gore are fun as always.

## Halo 3

I had a month's gap midway through this game so I lost some context on what was
going on. But I enjoyed this game.

## Incomplete / In Progress

I spent January in Chennai and did not bring my console along. But I have a
low-end gaming laptop that has served as a fair replacement. So far, I've spent
most of my gaming time on these two:

- State of Decay 2: Juggernaut Edition - This seems like my ideal vision of a
  zombie game so I'm really enjoying it so far! I've just played a couple of
  hours but I like that it's more about resource management than shooting
  zombies.
- Lake - This is a peaceful game to balance with the one above. Abandoned
  because I wanted something with a bit more punch.
- Aragamai 2 - Really enjoying the stealth-ghost-ninja gameplay. New powers
  keep things interesting.

Commit message:

finished a couple of telltale games

home/games/2022.md, after:

# 🎮 2022

## Batman: The Telltale Series

This is a fun game with some nice detecting additions over the usual
Telltale formula. The *Shadows Edition* is beautiful and I switched to it
mid-way and stayed with it till the end.

The plot has some similarities to 2022's *The Batman*.

## The Walking Dead: A New Frontier

I skipped the other Walking Dead games and jumped straight to this one. As
always the roads all feel like they lead to the same place. But the plot
is well made and the character dynamics are interesting.

## ♥**Halo: Infinite**

I had loads of fun with this game. All the new additions are huge improvements.
The grappleshot is fun to use and does more than just aid in climbing. Shoot it
at a shield to stun an enemy, at a vehicle to board it, and use its powerful
melee attack when you grapple onto an enemy.

This is also the first Halo I've played where I had to constantly use the
environment, like the exploding canisters, and switch between different weapons
based on the enemy. e.g. the skewer for vehicles.

The move to open-world is also a great choice. I spent a lot of the early game
in just exploring the world. The ground vehicles can get a bit bouncy but
things got fun when I stole an airborne vehicle.

Highly recommended and my favourite Halo alongside *Reach*.

## Contrast

Another little gem from game pass. Short and sweet, with a really unique
mechanism where you can turn into a shadow and move across surfaces.

## Mortal Kombat XI

I have fond memories of playing the first 4 MK's back in the day. So after a
long time, it was great to come back to this series. The cutscenes are really
nice and quite long, giving a movie-like feel in this game. The gameplay and
gore are fun as always.

## Halo 3

I had a month's gap midway through this game so I lost some context on what was
going on. But I enjoyed this game.

## Incomplete / In Progress

I spent January in Chennai and did not bring my console along. But I have a
low-end gaming laptop that has served as a fair replacement. So far, I've spent
most of my gaming time on these two:

- State of Decay 2: Juggernaut Edition - This seems like my ideal vision of a
  zombie game so I'm really enjoying it so far! I've just played a couple of
  hours but I like that it's more about resource management than shooting
  zombies.
- Lake - This is a peaceful game to balance with the one above. Abandoned
  because I wanted something with a bit more punch.
- Aragamai 2 - Really enjoying the stealth-ghost-ninja gameplay. New powers
  keep things interesting.
