# 🎮 2023

## Cocoon

A brief diversion from my Starfield obsession. A lovely little puzzle game.
Worlds within worlds within worlds. Thoroughly satisfying when everything
clicks together.

## Venba

Another little gem from Game Pass. I was able to relate to it even more, being
a Tamilian who loves the local cuisine. Lovely art style and music.

## A Short Hike

A short and sweet journey, thanks to Game Pass. Feels good to explore the
lovely little world.

## ♥** Marvel's Midnight Suns**

An absolute beauty of a game. Insanely addictive card-based gameplay, coupled
with social aspects to interact with all the characters. Reminded me a bit of
Persona with the day/night loop alternating between social and battle aspects.

## Call of Juarez: Gunslinger

My first Switch Lite completion! Picked it on sale, bundled with Dying Light,
and was happy to see that this was a well made, humorous game in a lovely
Western setting. I maxed out the Rifle's abilities and had a blast sniping at
enemies from afar.

## Pentiment

Pretty much like a visual novel. Lovely atmosphere. The first half kept me
quite engrossed. There was less agency in the second. I like to think this was
meant to be savoured as a single play through, mistakes and all.

## Bramble

Finished in pretty much a single sitting. The first couple of hours reminded me
of another old favourite of mine: //Brothers, a Tale of Two Sons//. The
atmosphere is creepy and beautiful. Each chapter is based around a dark fairy
tale story, and the boss fights are pretty unique. Very recommended.

## The Callisto Protocol

Got this on a whim (bad week at work), and quite enjoyed it. Finished it over
the weekend, so it was just the right length for me. /Very/ pretty to look at.
I'm not usually a fan of survival horror but I fortunately did not have to
spend most of the game scrounging for ammo. Money is sparse though, so I never
got the joy of fully upgrading my weapons to be overpowered. The linear
paths were a refreshing change from the current trend of open world games.

## Planet of Lana

I finished this over the weekend. A short and sweet game with lovely visuals
and simple puzzles. Bonus points for having a cute pet that helps out in the
puzzles, and an interesting story that the player figures out without any
cutscenes or exposition.

## Ghostwire: Tokyo

I went in blind without seeing any trailers or reviews and was quite happy with
this game. The side quests are pretty well made and there is always something
right around the corner that keeps you playing on.

While the combat was nice, especially the bow, I did not really use most of the
powers I unlocked. The bindings to use them did not really click with me.

## ♥**Doom (2016)**

I've played this a couple of times in the last few years and hated how
fast-paced it was. It did not suit my playing style at all. This time, I
changed things up a bit and it finally clicked. I did not try to conserve my
ammo, and did not try to keep a distance from the enemy. In Doom you need to be
aggresive and fast.

This game is pure, unadulterated fun. Waves of enemies keep the pressure up and
the weapons are immensely satisfying to use. The music fits the pace perfectly.
Highly recommended.

## Prodeus

An affectionate tribute to early FPSs like Doom. Very pretty to look at and a
blast to play. Each level is about 5 minutes long so it is perfect for quick
pick-up-and-play sessions. I stuck with the super shotgun for most of the game.
The easy mode is generous and it is great fun to clear a room with a few
rockets and leave a blood-splattered mess.

## South Park: The Stick of Truth

Highly recommended if you already like South Park. The animation is spot on and
the gameplay is really polished. I picked the Thief class for my character and
stuck with Butters as my side-kick for most of the game.

## ♥**AC Odyssey: Legacy of the First Blade and The Fate of Atlantis**

For some reason I expected the DLCs to be a few hours long and to contain a few
extra missions. These turned out to be *huge*. I liked the first for its story
and the second for its worlds. As with any ubisoft game, open world fatigue
eventually set in and I was happy when it finally ended. But I had a lot of fun
for most of it: I spent a lot more time customizing my gear, adding engravings
and fine tuning.

Towards the last third, I got things just the way I like it: an assassin built
using the Pirate gear, with adrenaline recharges, 40% savings on Shadow of Nyx
and some pretty good boosts on all assassin skills. So I had quite a lot of fun
raiding forts invisibly and 1-hit killing pretty much every one in the game.

I've spent ~150 hours on AC Odyssey now and think I am done with it.
Considering how much I jump between games and prefer shorter experiences, it is
nice to have one exception that I have gone back to so many times in the last
few years.
