# 🎮 Games played in 2024

## ♥**Indiana Jones and the Great Circle**

A great game to end the year. Feels like a movie and the visuals are just
stunning. Special mention to the voice actor (Troy Baker) for nailing Indiana
Jones' voice and personality perfectly.

## ♥**Assassin's Creed: Valhalla**

I bought this 2 years back on my birthday and after several attempts, I
*finally* finished it after 82 hours of playtime. Given how insanely long this
game is, I just could not get into it initially. After taking it easy and just
enjoying the flow, I was able to appreciate the game a lot more. It is
immensely satisfying to have an overpowered assassin + archer build and take
down an entire camp silently.

## Hellblade 2

No HUD, no map, no health bar, no power-ups, no levelling up. Just a pure,
visceral, cinematic experience. Could never get into part 1 after multiple
attempts. But this one hit the sweet spot.

## ♥**Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons** (Replay)

The second time I'm playing this gem. As good as I remember it. Highly
recommended.

## Control

I'm a bit torn on Remedy games because I loved Quantum Break but couldn't
finish Alan Wake. Anyway, Control is a lovely game with an excellent art style
and atmosphere. I had to tone down the difficulty considerably to enjoy the
game.. I did not have the patience to die-retry in the default difficulty.
Recommended.


## ♥**Wasteland 3**

Tried this on a whim after some frustrating battles in Baldur's Gate
3, and ended up absolutely loving it. A beautifully dark, cynical,
funny dystopian setting with hard choices to make at every turn. The
abilities are fun and having a good distribution across the team
really makes things fun.

---

# Abandoned

After playing Wasteland 3, I found it quite hard to get into games. Most of
2024 has been a series of attempts and trying a new game, and dropping it after
the first hour or so. Some games I tried and abandoned:

- Hitman 2
- The Bard's Tale 4
- Diablo 4
- Darksiders 3
- Assassin's Creed: Valhalla
- Sonic Frontiers
- The Outer Worlds
- Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora
- Robocop: Rogue City
