# üéÆ Games played in 2025

## ‚ù§Ô∏èClair Obscur: Expedition 33

I thought Split Fiction would be my GOTY and then I played this masterpiece. It
hooks you in right from the intriguing prologue. The characters appear to have
a stoic resignation to their mission, and there is an air of melancholy
throughout. It feels like they are setting out for a possibly dooomed
expedition (dozens of previous ones have already failed). Us gamers are used to
much simpler fare, e.g. the standard hero's journey where the protagonist is
certain to see victory.

Every part of the game feels like it was crafted with love, from the music to
the voice acting to the satisfying character skills and how they get
increasingly more powerful as the turns proceed (if the skills are used right).

This has stayed on my mind for long after I finished it, and is a rare
masterpiece that should not be missed.

## ‚ù§Ô∏èSplit Fiction

One of the best games I've played in the past few years! Exquisite co-op
gameplay and imagination. By the same guy who made Brothers: A Tale of Two
Sons, which I also revere. I played this completely with my daughter and am
also mid-way through the game with my son.

## Avowed

An excellent game from Obsidian. I played as a mage and thoroughly enjoyed the
rich variety of spells. The world is lovely to look at. I liked some of the story
choices along the way, and was able to complete several parts without lifting a
weapon.

## As Dusk Falls

An interactive, choose-your-own-adventure game about a robbery gone wrong. The
characters are interesting and well developed. I chose the straight-and-narrow
path but it might have been fun to see what would've happened if I picked
different paths.

## Watch Dogs: Legion

Although enjoyable, I probably agree with the general consensus here that this
is the weakest of the trilogy. The game reaches high, and the idea of
recruiting anyone is fun at first but is not something that made a very big
difference over time (apart from 1-2 characters with special powers like the
getaway driver).

