home/games/xboxone.md, before:

# Games - Xbox One

I prefer single-player Action Adventure open-world games. Bonus points if it has
a good story.

The ones in **bold** below are highly recommended.

## Completed

  - Quantum Break - A  game based on time-travel with alternating filmed
  episodes. A lot of fun!

  - Resident Evil Revelations 2 - Enjoyed this. Looks like it'd be nice as a
  co-op game too. I don't like the survival parts of survival horror much so
  thankfully the easy mode was forgiving.

  - **Darksiders 2** - Had a blast playing this. Lovely world design, fun 
  puzzles, and enough variety to keep thing fresh.
  
  - Assassin's Creed Origins - Everyone said this was better than Odyssey and
  indeed it is. The side quests are way better and everything feels well
  designed.

  - Diablo 3 - I played in easy mode as a Mage and it was perhaps too easy. So
  I did not feel like playing again with a different characters.

  - Gears 5 - Again, an enjoyable game. Quite different from the classics but
    good in its own way.

  - Gears 2, Gears 3 - Finished the remaining legacy Gears games during the 2020 
  year-end holidays. An excellent series from start to finish.
  
  - **Gears of War** - Mindless fun. Thoroughly enjoyed playing this and now I
  intend to play through the rest of the series.

  - Rage 2 - I have a soft spot for this series so I liked it.

  - **Assassin's Creed Odyssey** - I've loved greek mythology all my life so
  this was an amazing experience. Very nice variety in play styles
  (ranger/warrior/assassin), and constant loots and upgrades made for a
  addictive gameplay loop. Side quest plots are pretty average.

  - Injustice 2 - Kids loved it. Nice single player campaign, but a bit short.
  
  - Watch Dogs 2 - It took me several attempts to get into this game. The open
world is beautiful, and so is the satirical take on Silicon Valley. The part I
struggled with was the annoying stealth gameplay. I truly started enjoying it
only after switching my play style to a more aggressive mode.

  - Thief - Enjoyable game. I loved their stealth implementation (over other
    games like Deus Ex: Mankind Divided). There were some truly thrilling
    moments during the game.
  
  - Far Cry 4 - Almost as good as 5. Better story as well. I think I like 5 more
    only because I played it first.
  
  - Shadow of the Tomb Raider - Fun game, great visuals and stealth sections.
    Little disappointed with the overall game. I can't put my hand to exactly
    what felt wrong.

  - **Far Cry 5** - Probably my favourite game on the console so far. Amazing
    open world, supports a lot of play styles, nice co-op AI partners.

  - **Rayman Legends** - My kids love this. Exquisite level design & music.
  
  - Life is Strange - I felt a little old playing this, but it was worth completing.

  - Gears of War 4 - Like a Michael Bay movie. Fun diversion for a few hours.

  - Batman: Arkham Knight - Disappointing. Too much driving.

  - INSIDE - Lovely little gem of a game.

  - Watch Dogs - Pretty fun game except for the brooding protagonist.
  
  - **Titanfall 2** - Absolutely phenomenal single-player campaign.
  
  - **Rise of the Tomb Raider** - Probably my favourite series. I have fond
    memories of playing *Tomb Raider: Legend* on my PS2.
  
  - Mass Effect: Andromeda - I wish they made more games like this. Phenomenal
    world designs. Sped through the last quarter of the game but what I loved
    most was exploring each planet in the early stages.

  - Bioshock - I'd played it earlier on PC and sped through the first part. Not
    a fan of the choice system, but enjoyable otherwise.

  - Homefront Revolution - Ignore the reviews, this is a fun game. Very nice
    tension where you're initially avoiding an overpowered enemy, and slowly
    instigating enough of a rebellion to tip the balance.

  - Halo 5 - Decent single player campaign. Skipped the multiplayer bits. Had no
    idea what was going on story-wise, as I've never payed a Halo before.

  - Call of Dury - Infinite Warfare - Tolerable single player campaign.
    Titanfall 2 does this kind of thing a lot better.

  - Deus Ex: Mankind Divided - Badly wanted to like this game, but didn't.


## In Progress

As of December 2020, I got Gamepass Unlimited so there's too many to count :)

(As of April 2021, I unsubscribed so I could diversify my hobbies a bit)

  - Red Read Redemption 2
  - Assassin's Creed Odyssey New Game+ and DLC

## Backlog

Games i've bought that are in my queue

  - Halo Master Chief Collection
  - Middle Earth: Shadow of War
  - Dishonored 2
  - Witcher 3

## Abandoned

  - Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Wildlands - Getting tired of the whole ubisoft 
    open world formula so this is probably my last shot at that genre.
  - XCOM 2 - Too hard/stressful for me :( Great game though.
  - Guacamelee - About 60% of the way, I gave up at a frustratingly hard section.
  - Ori 1 - Lovely  game but I hate the frustrating experience.
  - Everspace - I don't like repeating the same thing again and again so it
  didn't suit my play style.
  - Fallout 4 - Somehow didn't click for me. Required a more serious investment
  than I'm able to make currently.

Commit message:

Finished a few games this month

home/games/xboxone.md, after:

# Games - Xbox One

I prefer single-player Action Adventure open-world games. Bonus points if it has
a good story.

The ones in **bold** below are highly recommended.

## Completed

  - Lost Words: Beyond the Page - A touching story of a child coping with loss
  through stories. Lovely art style and story.

  - Ryse: Son of Rome - Lovely, violent game.

  - The Dark Pictures Anthology: Man Of Medan - A fun horror adventure with 4
  interlocking characters in an abandoned ship. This game kindled my love for
  story-driven experiences.

  - Quantum Break - A  game based on time-travel with alternating filmed
  episodes. A lot of fun!

  - Resident Evil Revelations 2 - Enjoyed this. Looks like it'd be nice as a
  co-op game too. I don't like the survival parts of survival horror much so
  thankfully the easy mode was forgiving.

  - **Darksiders 2** - Had a blast playing this. Lovely world design, fun 
  puzzles, and enough variety to keep thing fresh.
  
  - Assassin's Creed Origins - Everyone said this was better than Odyssey and
  indeed it is. The side quests are way better and everything feels well
  designed.

  - Diablo 3 - I played in easy mode as a Mage and it was perhaps too easy. So
  I did not feel like playing again with a different characters.

  - Gears 5 - Again, an enjoyable game. Quite different from the classics but
    good in its own way.

  - Gears 2, Gears 3 - Finished the remaining legacy Gears games during the 2020 
  year-end holidays. An excellent series from start to finish.
  
  - **Gears of War** - Mindless fun. Thoroughly enjoyed playing this and now I
  intend to play through the rest of the series.

  - Rage 2 - I have a soft spot for this series so I liked it.

  - **Assassin's Creed Odyssey** - I've loved greek mythology all my life so
  this was an amazing experience. Very nice variety in play styles
  (ranger/warrior/assassin), and constant loots and upgrades made for a
  addictive gameplay loop. Side quest plots are pretty average.

  - Injustice 2 - Kids loved it. Nice single player campaign, but a bit short.
  
  - Watch Dogs 2 - It took me several attempts to get into this game. The open
world is beautiful, and so is the satirical take on Silicon Valley. The part I
struggled with was the annoying stealth gameplay. I truly started enjoying it
only after switching my play style to a more aggressive mode.

  - Thief - Enjoyable game. I loved their stealth implementation (over other
    games like Deus Ex: Mankind Divided). There were some truly thrilling
    moments during the game.
  
  - Far Cry 4 - Almost as good as 5. Better story as well. I think I like 5 more
    only because I played it first.
  
  - Shadow of the Tomb Raider - Fun game, great visuals and stealth sections.
    Little disappointed with the overall game. I can't put my hand to exactly
    what felt wrong.

  - **Far Cry 5** - Probably my favourite game on the console so far. Amazing
    open world, supports a lot of play styles, nice co-op AI partners.

  - **Rayman Legends** - My kids love this. Exquisite level design & music.
  
  - Life is Strange - I felt a little old playing this, but it was worth completing.

  - Gears of War 4 - Like a Michael Bay movie. Fun diversion for a few hours.

  - Batman: Arkham Knight - Disappointing. Too much driving.

  - INSIDE - Lovely little gem of a game.

  - Watch Dogs - Pretty fun game except for the brooding protagonist.
  
  - **Titanfall 2** - Absolutely phenomenal single-player campaign.
  
  - **Rise of the Tomb Raider** - Probably my favourite series. I have fond
    memories of playing *Tomb Raider: Legend* on my PS2.
  
  - Mass Effect: Andromeda - I wish they made more games like this. Phenomenal
    world designs. Sped through the last quarter of the game but what I loved
    most was exploring each planet in the early stages.

  - Bioshock - I'd played it earlier on PC and sped through the first part. Not
    a fan of the choice system, but enjoyable otherwise.

  - Homefront Revolution - Ignore the reviews, this is a fun game. Very nice
    tension where you're initially avoiding an overpowered enemy, and slowly
    instigating enough of a rebellion to tip the balance.

  - Halo 5 - Decent single player campaign. Skipped the multiplayer bits. Had no
    idea what was going on story-wise, as I've never payed a Halo before.

  - Call of Dury - Infinite Warfare - Tolerable single player campaign.
    Titanfall 2 does this kind of thing a lot better.

  - Deus Ex: Mankind Divided - Badly wanted to like this game, but didn't.


## In Progress

As of December 2020, I got Gamepass Unlimited so there's too many to count :)

(As of April 2021, I unsubscribed so I could diversify my hobbies a bit)

  - Red Read Redemption 2
  - Assassin's Creed Odyssey New Game+ and DLC

## Backlog

Games i've bought that are in my queue

  - Halo Master Chief Collection
  - Middle Earth: Shadow of War
  - Dishonored 2
  - Witcher 3

## Abandoned

  - Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Wildlands - Getting tired of the whole ubisoft 
    open world formula so this is probably my last shot at that genre.
  - XCOM 2 - Too hard/stressful for me :( Great game though.
  - Guacamelee - About 60% of the way, I gave up at a frustratingly hard section.
  - Ori 1 - Lovely  game but I hate the frustrating experience.
  - Everspace - I don't like repeating the same thing again and again so it
  didn't suit my play style.
  - Fallout 4 - Somehow didn't click for me. Required a more serious investment
  than I'm able to make currently.
