# Alexander the Great

# Introduction

Born in 356 BCE, king of Macedon from 336 to his death in 323.

## Sources

People used to maintain Astronomical Diaries to monitor positions of
planets, and unusual phenomena like comets and eclipses. Some of them
were seen as omens and used to decide how to protect the king. They
are good texts that chronicle his deeds.

Later accounts lionize him as they were meant to serve as inspiration
for their audience: the Roman elite. So they are not very reliable
even if there are multiple accounts of the same story.

Coins printed with his portrait during his reign depict him with ram's
horns, indicating he was the son of the Egyptian God Amun.

# Before Alexander

A Persian King, Darius I, around 513 BCE, led an army from Asia to
Europe and established his territories there. Macedonia was given to
Amyntas, who was succeeded by Alexander I. In the meantime Darius was
succeeded by his son Xerxes. Alexander's great-great-great-grandson
was Alexander III aka Alexander the Great.

The Achaemenid empire was established by Cyrus the Great, and passed
on eventually to a distant relative Darius through a coup.

The kings led a nomadic life, traveling from one camp to another
throughout the year, partly for war and partly to be in cooler
climates.

The Achaemenid empire's peak was under Xerxes when most of northern
and central Greece - including Athens - was conquered in 480. His
fleet was defeated soon and his army driven back to Asia. An
Athenian-led alliance slowly took control back. Then Persians again
took control of the east Aegean coast. Increasing distrust between the
Greek cities eventually led to the Peloponnesian War between Athens
and Sparta and their allies (431-404), with both sides trying to win
support of the Persian kings Artaxerxes and Darius II. Cyrus helped
the Spartans with naval power forcing the Athenians to surrender. So
the Spartans in return gave up the Greek cities on the Asian mainland
to Persia.

After Darius II, relations broke down again. The Athenian writer
Xenophon describes this in his *Anabasis*. Artaxerxes finally
established a King's peace there. 

Meanwhile in Macedon, Amyntas was succeeded by Alexander I. Kings were
polygamous so they had a lot of heirs, leading to a period of
instability whenever a king died. So his successor Perdiccas II took
years to establish his power. A few kings later the throne came to
Philip II, ALexander the Great's father.

Philip II transformed Macedonia's fortunes with diplomacy, military
reorganization and skilled generalship. Eventually all the Greek
cities except Sparta swore allegiance to him, establishing the League
of Corinth. Philip next declared war on Persia.

## Prince: Alexander in the Macedonian Court

Alexander was born in July 356. One of his historians, Plutarch, says
he was educated by Aristotle. A lot of mythical stories around his
birth and childhood have come up. He was attached to his horse
Bucephalas.

He was attending the wedding of his sister Cleopatra to his uncle,
Alexander of Epirus. His father Philip was assassinated there, the
reasons are still unclear. So it came to him to seek revenge against
the Persians for the destruction they'd caused earlier.

---

# Warrior: Alexander's Army

Alexander dealt with uprisings in areas close to Macedonia, and later
with Thebes. He then crossed into Asia and fought the Persians in 3
major battles. Then Porus. Then a bunch of cities on the west coast of
Anatolia and the Levant. And a long insurgency in Afghanistan, and
Pakistan.

The army was made up of:

- Cavalrymen with lances,
- The Macedonian phalanx, armed with pikes,
- Flanked by soldiers with swords, spears and round shields,
- Light-armed trooops with javelins, bows and slings.

A large number of camp-followers, attendants, slaves, hangers-on
etc. were also present, pretty much outnumbering the soliders.

A *siege train* comprising catapults, battering rams, siege towers
(that were dismantled and loaded into carts), also followed the main
army.

---

# Commander: Alexander and the Greeks

Would-be Greek leaders often looked to opposing kings (Philip, the
Persians) for political funding. Rivalries and infghting often led to
exiles. Philip II defeated Thebes and Athens. He exiled the Theban
politicians and garrisoned the city but Athens was left in peace. So
they allied with him.

A more formalized agreement was then made, known as the *League of
Corinth*. This was a campaign led by Philip (the *hegemon*) against
Persia. After his death, Alexader renewed the alliance but Thebes
revolted. As punishment for the rebellion, Alexander attacked
them. They were completely destroyed..

Sparta was the only city outside of these happenings. They were not
part of the *League* and had lost a lot of territory and
dominance. They chose to side with Darius instead.

Athens was Alexander's favoured city. The politicians were divided in
their support of Alexander.

## Exiles

One of Alexander's acts was to order the cities to take back their
exiles. This was a bit problematic as individuals were not allowed to
own land in cities that they didn't belong to. So exiles had to find
other ways of supporting themselves, e.g. fight as a hoplite or
cavalryman. When Alexander returned to Greece and disbanded his army,
these were the ones who needed somewhere to go, hence the order to
allow them back to their cities.

This order challenged the autonomy of the cities that had enforced
these exiles initially. Exiles had to be accommodated alongside other
citizens who had taken over their lands, and disputes arose.

---

# Pharaoh: Alexander and Egypt

With Greece sorted out, Alexander now came to Egypt in late 332. Egypt
had gone through quite a bit of churn, with multiple transfer of
power. Two events that happened in Alexander's time there are:

- The foundation of the city of Alexandria
- his visit to the oracle of Amun at Siwa

## Alexandria

Through trade, had become the largest city in the world at that
time. Joined the Mediterranean world to the East. The Library gathered
all of Greek literature. After Alexander's death, Ptolemy took control
of Egypt and proclaimed himself King. He used Memphis as his capital
though. He and his successors made Alexandria the cultural hub that
it's famous for, not Alexander. Also, Alexander founded many other
cities called Alexandria during his conquests. So overall it is not
very clear that he had very large plans for the famous one in Egypt.

Stories of omens surrounding the City's foundations are probably
whitewashing by future rulers to associate the city with Alexander.

## The Oracle of Amun

Apparently a turning point in Alexander's perception of himself. At
major festivals, the image of the God would be carried by eight
priests and people could ask questions. The image swaying would
indicate an answer. Or they'd keep two pieces of paper in front and
the image swaying towards one of them would indicate that decision.

Amun / Ammon / Zeus Ammon. Depicted as a man with a ram's horns.
